static variables,static methods,static block are object independent .
order of execution of a class:
1.static variables.
2.static block
3.static methods
4.memory for instance variables.
5.non static blocks
6.constructor
7. methods
java program=> compiler=>byte code=>jvm(executes code).jvm inside the jre(battle field)
jvm execution process:
use class loader subsystem and then arrange the data areas and then executes the program using interpreter and jit compiler and many other native references.
.class file =>jvm,jvm call class loader subsystem(loading,linking,initialization) where 
loading:static variables get executed and allocated to the memory in heap area and
 linking:verification code will be done and static block gets executed in the stack area.
 static method is main method gets executed and then other static methods,instance variables,
 initialization:java blocks,constructor gets executed.
 just in time compiler is used when a method is called repeatedly then it acts as cache.
 static variables and static block and main method gets executed automatically.
 static methods should be called by us.
 every time constructor gets created and invoked behind the scenes it also includes non static blocks.
 one copy of static variables can be used by all the objects also known as class variables and object independents.
 can be accessed using classname.
 anywhere in the rogram we can use static variables.
 static block vs main method which executes first?
  static block:to initialize static variables that gets execute while class loading.
  constructor or non static block:while creating object execute specified statements.
  for the repeated statements execution in constructors we can use non static block or java blocks.
  static block first gets executed and then main method.
static variables memory get allocated in heap area directly at a time and it is fixed,and it is used by all the objects.
 and instance variables memory gets created in the objects everytime and it is specific to the objects.
when to use static variables and when instance variables are used?
when a common copy of data is to be used by all the objects then we prefer to use static variables that also saves memory.



